.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Ted Unangst
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt VIM 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vim
.Nd vital improvements module
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The vital improvements module,
.Nm ,
is used to customize and extend honk in such rare cases as the
existing functionality proves insufficient.
.Ss Files
.Bl -tag -width deliverator.go
.It activity.go
Conversion to and from ActivityPub format and interop with other
implementations.
.It admin.go
The console admin interface.
.It avatar.go
Code to generate blocky avatar images.
.It backend.go
Interface to the image resizing backend helper process.
.It bloat.go
Bad stuff.
.It database.go
Loading and saving things to database.
.It deliverator.go
Sending messages and handling retries.
.It fun.go
All sorts of fun stuff.
.It hfcs.go
Filtering framework.
.It honk.go
Just a few data types.
.It hoot.go
Twitter scraper.
.It import.go
Importers from other service data dumps.
.It markitzero.go
Markdown converter.
.It schema.go
Generated from schema.sql.
.It sensors.go
Monitor memory and CPU.
.It skulduggery.go
Reduce some stupidity.
.It unveil.go
OpenBSD pledge and unveil.
.It upgradedb.go
Upgrade between schema versions.
.It util.go
Boring code.
.It web.go
The web interface.
.El
.Ss Schema
The current schema is stored in
.Pa schema.sql .
.Pp
After changing the schema, edit
.Pa upgradedb.go
to update
.Va myVersion
and add relevant update statements to the bottom of the large switch.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr honk 3
